Established in 1924, the Brown University Band is one of Brown's oldest and most unique student organizations. Founded by Irving Harris, the Band has successfully brought Brown's distinct tradition and music to every student that has walked through the Van Wickle Gates. In addition, the Band continues to provide alumni with memories of their days at Brown. With an audience ranging from children to adults, the Band manages to capture a smile from all while performing a wide variety of music. From athletic events to commencement ceremonies to the world's only ice skating band, the Brown University Band is the spirit of Brown.

The Band performs at all home football games and nearly at all away football games during the fall. In the winter, we trade our snazzy blazers for rugbies and cheer on the men's and women's ice hockey teams. In addition to games in November and December, we play at home and away Friday and Saturday night from the last week of January through the first week of March. We are proud to be the world's only ice skating college band, as we lace up for two to three post game ice shows in the latter half of the season. The Band also frequents men's and women's basketball games throughout the winter season. Besides rooting on our teams, the Band creates an atmosphere of excitement for the fans and players unlike any other group can. We also play at several special events throughout the fall and winter, including first-year and mid-year orientations, the occasional surprise birthday party for Brown's President, and several spirit-rousing affairs. Throughout our history, the Band has been providing musical entertainment to the Brown community unlike a traditional marching band. As one of the few scramble bands left in the United States, we bring a special brand of humor and satire to all corners of the Ivy League. We have been featured on NBC's Today Show in 1986, and have earned the respect of alumnae, alumni, and other spectators alike.

The Band takes on yet another role as spring approaches, gearing up for pre-freshmen visits, spring concerts on the main green, and commencement ceremonies. The Band traditionally leads all pre-freshmen on a campus march during the A Day On College Hill (ADOCH) extravaganza. We introduce them to a history of Brown in music as well as a entertaining look at life at Brown. "Ever True to Brown" can be heard echoing throughout the main green in the spring as the Band serenades University Hall during its spring concert season. Finally, the Brown Band takes center stage as we process all of the graduating seniors, alumni, and members of the Brown administration and faculty through the Van Wickle Gates and down College Hill for the traditional commencement ceremonies. Our own "Commencement March" along with the traditional Brown fight songs strike a chord of enchantment in the hearts of all, even for those who have not had the unique opportunity to be a part of Brown history.
